EDU-3849 add deploy a service (#643)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/deploy-journey/deploy-service.mdx

---
title: Deploy a service
description: aaa
meta_tags: deploy, orchestrator
namespace: docs_deploy_overview
menu_namespace: deployMenu
og_image: ''
permalink: /documentation/products/deploy/deploy-a-service/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

> Edge orchestrator allows you to manage and control edge resources in real time, including the deployment, updating, and management of various services and resources.

Reviewer: Edge resources ou resources at the edge?

> Edge orchestrator allows you to manage and control edge resources in real time, including the deployment, updating, and management of various services and resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Edge Orchestrator** allows you to manage and control edge resources in real time, including the deployment, updating, and management of various services and resources.
```

Azion provides two ways to manage edge nodes, edge services, resources, and credentials: 

- [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#32f34add-9e9f-4b25-94c9-3cee4c266a23)
- [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/)

:::note 

> The creation of an edge node happens directly on devices when Azion Orchestrator Agent is installed on them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creation of an edge node happens directly on devices where an Azion Orchestrator Agent is installed.
```

> The creation of an edge node happens directly on devices when Azion Orchestrator Agent is installed on them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The creation of an edge node happens directly on devices when [Azion Orchestrator Agent]() is installed on them.
```

:::

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge orchestrator reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

> 
> ## Step 1: Create an edge service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

---

## Step 1: Create an edge service
```

> To create an edge service, you need to give it an easy-to-remember name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start, you must create an edge service. To do so, follow the steps in the [create an edge service](/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service/) guide.
```

Reviewer 2: Acho que aqui vale a pena ser mais direito, o botão parece que fica mais solto como está agora

> <Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service/" text="go to create an edge service guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Step 2: Create a resource 

To be able to orchestrate services on your device, you need to configure all the resources needed to install, uninstall, and reload your services.

To create a resource, you need to: 

- Give the resource an easy-to-remember name
- Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`
- Add the content of the resource

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service-resource/" text="go to create an edge service resource guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

## Step 3: Generate a credential 

> To be able to manage edge nodes, it's necessary to generate the credentials used during the Azion Orchestrator Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to manage edge nodes, you must generate the credentials used by the Azion Orchestrator Agent.
```

- Choose a description 
- Add an easy-to-remember name
- Set the credential as active

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-a-credential/" text="go to create a credential guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
<br/>
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/credentials/" text="go to credentials reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

## Step 4: Install Edge Orchestrator Agent 

With the credentials created:

- Download and install the Edge Orchestrator agent with the recently created credentials

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/install-edge-orchestrator-agent/" text="go to install edge orchestrator agent guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

## Step 5: Authorize an edge node

Now, with the Edge Orchestrator Agent installed on the device:

- Authorize the edge node

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/authorize-node/" text="go to authorize edge node guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
<br/>
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge node reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

## Step 6: Link an edge service to an edge node

> Now, with the edge node created and authorized, it's necessary to link it with an edge service to be deployed onto the edge node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, with the edge node created and authorized, you must link it with an edge service to be deployed onto the edge node.
```

- Create a relation between edge service and edge node

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/link-service-node/" text="go to link an edge service to an edge node guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

> Once this relation is in place, when an update is triggered on the edge services, it'll be deployed to all nodes related to this service in particular.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this relation is in place, when an update is triggered on the edge services, it'll be deployed to all nodes related to this service in particular.

---

import ContributorList from '~/components/ContributorList.astro'

**Contributors** <ContributorList>Contributor</ContributorList>

```

---
title: Deploy a service
description: aaa
meta_tags: deploy, orchestrator
namespace: docs_deploy_overview
menu_namespace: deployMenu
og_image: ''
permalink: /documentation/products/deploy/deploy-a-service/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

**Edge Orchestrator** allows you to manage and control edge resources in real time, including the deployment, update, and management of various services and resources.

Azion provides two ways to manage edge nodes, edge services, resources, and credentials: 

- [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#32f34add-9e9f-4b25-94c9-3cee4c266a23)
- [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/)

:::note 
The creation of an edge node happens directly on devices when [Azion Orchestrator Agent]() is installed on them.
:::

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge orchestrator reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Step 1: Create an edge service

> To create an edge service, you need to give it an easy-to-remember name.

Reviewer 2: To start, you must create an edge service.

Reviewer 2: Alternativa. Deixar o botão nesse caso, para manter alinhado com os outros passos

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service/" text="go to create an edge service guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

> ## Step 2: Create a resource 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

---

## Step 2: Create a resource 
```

To be able to orchestrate services on your device, you need to configure all the resources needed to install, uninstall, and reload your services.

To create a resource, you need to: 

> - Give the resource an easy-to-remember name
> - Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`
> - Add the content of the resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Give the resource an easy-to-remember name.
- Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`
- Add the content of the resource
```

> - Give the resource an easy-to-remember name
> - Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`
> - Add the content of the resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Give the resource an easy-to-remember name.
- Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`.
- Add the content of the resource.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service-resource/" text="go to create an edge service resource guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> ## Step 3: Generate a credential 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

## Step 3: Generate a credential 
```

To be able to manage edge nodes, you must generate the credentials used by the Azion Orchestrator Agent.

To do so: 

> - Choose a description 
> - Add an easy-to-remember name
> - Set the credential as active

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Choose a description.
- Add an easy-to-remember name.
- Set the credential as active.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-a-credential/" text="go to create a credential guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
<br/>

> <Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/credentials/" text="go to credentials reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/credentials/" text="go to credentials reference" variant="secondary"></Button>
```

> 
> ## Step 4: Install Edge Orchestrator Agent 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

## Step 4: Install Edge Orchestrator Agent 
```

> With the credentials created:
> 
> - Download and install the Edge Orchestrator agent with the recently created credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've created the credentials, download and install the Edge Orchestrator agent with the recently created credentials.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/install-edge-orchestrator-agent/" text="go to install edge orchestrator agent guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

> 
> ## Step 5: Authorize an edge node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

---

## Step 5: Authorize an edge node
```

> Now, with the Edge Orchestrator Agent installed on the device:
> 
> - Authorize the edge node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, with the Edge Orchestrator Agent installed on the device, you can authorize the edge node.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/authorize-node/" text="go to authorize edge node guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
<br/>

> <Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge node reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge node reference" variant="secondary"></Button>
```

> 
> ## Step 6: Link an edge service to an edge node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

## Step 6: Link an edge service to an edge node
```

> Now, with the edge node created and authorized, you must link it with an edge service to be deployed onto the edge node.
> 
> - Create a relation between edge service and edge node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, with the edge node created and authorized, you must link it with an edge service to be deployed onto the edge node, creating a relation between the edge service and the edge node.
```

---
title: Deploy a service
description: aaa
meta_tags: deploy, orchestrator
namespace: docs_deploy_overview
menu_namespace: deployMenu
og_image: ''
permalink: /documentation/products/deploy/deploy-a-service/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

**Edge Orchestrator** allows you to manage and control edge resources in real time, including the deployment, update, and management of various services and resources.

Azion provides two ways to manage edge nodes, edge services, resources, and credentials: 

- [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#32f34add-9e9f-4b25-94c9-3cee4c266a23)
- [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](/en/documentation/products/guides/how-to-access-rtm/)

:::note 

> The creation of an edge node happens directly on devices when [Azion Orchestrator Agent]() is installed on them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The creation of an edge node occurs directly on devices when [Azion Orchestrator Agent]() is installed on them.
```

:::

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge orchestrator reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

> ## Step 1: Create an edge service

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Creating an edge service
```

Reviewer 3: EN é gerúndio no nosso style guide e PT imperativo

To create an edge service, you need to give it an easy-to-remember name.

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service/" text="go to create an edge service guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Step 2: Create a resource 

To be able to orchestrate services on your device, you need to configure all the resources needed to install, uninstall, and reload your services.

To create a resource, you need to: 

> - Give the resource an easy-to-remember name
> - Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`
> - Add the content of the resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Give the resource an easy-to-remember name.
- Choose the `content-type` of the resource. Example: `text` and `shell-script`.
- Add the content of the resource.
```

Reviewer 3: style guide, vai ponto em listas com mais de 3 palavras em pelo menos um item

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-an-edge-service-resource/" text="go to create an edge service resource guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Step 3: Generate a credential 

To be able to manage edge nodes, you must generate the credentials used by the Azion Orchestrator Agent.

To do so: 

> - Choose a description 
> - Add an easy-to-remember name
> - Set the credential as active

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Choose a description.
- Add an easy-to-remember name.
- Set the credential as active.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/create-a-credential/" text="go to create a credential guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
<br/>
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/credentials/" text="go to credentials reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Step 4: Install Edge Orchestrator Agent 

With the credentials created:

> - Download and install the Edge Orchestrator agent with the recently created credentials

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Download and install the Edge Orchestrator agent with the recently created credentials.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/install-edge-orchestrator-agent/" text="go to install edge orchestrator agent guide" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Step 5: Authorize an edge node

> Now, with the Edge Orchestrator Agent installed on the device:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the Edge Orchestrator Agent installed on the device:
```

Reviewer 3: o próximo passo usa "now" também... deixei no outro, por ser o último

- Authorize the edge node

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/deploy/authorize-node/" text="go to authorize edge node guide" variant="secondary"></Button>
<br/>
<Button href="/en/documentation/products/deploy/edge-orchestrator/edge-node/" text="go to edge node reference documentation" variant="secondary"></Button>

---

## Step 6: Link an edge service to an edge node

Now, with the edge node created and authorized, you must link it with an edge service to be deployed onto the edge node.

> - Create a relation between edge service and edge node

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Create a relation between edge service and edge node.
```
